---
layout: course
title: Informatics in Production and Service System
# description: This course covers the foundational aspects of data science, including data collection, cleaning, analysis, and visualization. Students will learn practical skills for working with real-world datasets.
instructor: Prof. Jianjun Shi
year: 2026
term: Spring
course_id: ISyE-7204
---

## Course Overview

This course discusses advanced AI/ML and data analytics tools and concepts that are useful for system informatics modeling and analysis. The main topics are related to modeling and analysis of system performance and relationships with process variables, control variables, and noise variables. It aims at developing problem solving capabilities using AI/ML and data analysis for system improvement. Real case studies are used throughout the course to demonstrate the procedures of implementation in the areas of engineering-driven data fusion for quality improvements. The lectures also reflect the co-evolution of sensing data modality, data science/machine learning, and the needs of manufacturing systems. Several modules of lectures are prepared, which covers overview of system informative and control, physics-informed machine learning, 3D point cloud data machine learning, multimodality data analytics for additive manufacturing, tensor-based predictive modeling and control, as well as Strem of Variation modeling and analysis for multistage manufacturing processes. Some modern methods for considering specific data challenges and mechanisms of specific systems will be introduced as well. Each module will discuss motivations, methods/algorithms, program codes, real data modeling and analysis, and case studies. The main focus of the discussion is how to conduct system modeling, analysis, diagnostics, and control in complex production systems in a data rich environment.
